Lecture_Notes/january_20/data_vis_examples.md, before:

# Data Visualization Examples

1. ![https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sjkiss/DMJN328/master/Lecture_Notes/january_20/Now%20yourre%20speaking%20my%20language.png](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sjkiss/DMJN328/master/Lecture_Notes/january_20/Now yourre speaking my language.png)

2. [](https://www.thestar.com/news/federal-election.html?fbclid=IwAR3P0UAgKENIGiYKYji-xoK0lciOahj3YqgS7F9Sw3E4mtlLiw1sKzS6cgs)
   1. See similar issues raised by this cartoon (https://xkcd.com/1939/large/)
3. [](https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/charts-climate-change-bar-codes-1.4802293)
   1. Remember reference to weathercan R package
4. ![](https://github.com/sjkiss/DMJN328/raw/master/Lecture_Notes/january_20/king_visualization_example.png)
   1. Question: How many variables are in this graph? What types are they?
5. ![](http://2oqz471sa19h3vbwa53m33yj-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/30-years-of-music-sales-2.png)

6. 1. [How to animate plots with GGplot2](https://www.datanovia.com/en/blog/gganimate-how-to-create-plots-with-beautiful-animation-in-r/)

7. Mass Incarceration in the United States
   1. [](https://www.vox.com/2015/7/13/8913297/mass-incarceration-maps-charts)
      1. Note the use of simple bar charts. 
8. ![](https://shawglobalnews.files.wordpress.com/2020/01/3r1ga_ipsos_poll_predicitions_2020.png?w=602)

9. [](https://www.cbc.ca/news2/interactives/leadermeter/index.html)
10. Australian Fires
    1. ![](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/660/cpsprodpb/16615/production/_110496619_australia_bush_fires_13jan2020_640-nc.png)
    2. ![](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/660/cpsprodpb/1262A/production/_110460357_australia_fire_size_2020_v3_976.png)

# Resources

1. GGthemes Package (https://www.ggplot2-exts.org/ggthemes.html)

2. R Graph Gallery [](https://www.r-graph-gallery.com/)

Commit message:

Upload some images and data visualization example file

Lecture_Notes/january_20/data_vis_examples.md, after:

# Data Visualization Examples

1. ![https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sjkiss/DMJN328/master/Lecture_Notes/january_20/Now%20yourre%20speaking%20my%20language.png](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sjkiss/DMJN328/master/Lecture_Notes/january_20/Now yourre speaking my language.png)

2. [Ethan's Election Map](https://www.thestar.com/news/federal-election.html?fbclid=IwAR3P0UAgKENIGiYKYji-xoK0lciOahj3YqgS7F9Sw3E4mtlLiw1sKzS6cgs)
   
   1. See similar issues raised by this cartoon (https://xkcd.com/1939/large/)
   
3. [Climate Chage](https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/charts-climate-change-bar-codes-1.4802293)
   
   1. These data are all accessible via the [weathercan R package](https://docs.ropensci.org/weathercan/) 
   
4. ![](https://github.com/sjkiss/DMJN328/raw/master/Lecture_Notes/january_20/king_visualization_example.png)
   
   1. Question: How many variables are in this graph? What types are they?
   
5. ![](http://2oqz471sa19h3vbwa53m33yj-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/30-years-of-music-sales-2.png)

6. [Australian Bush Fires, Animated](https://www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2019/nov/21/how-australias-bushfires-spread-mapping-the-nsw-and-queensland-fires)

   1. [How to animate plots with GGplot2](https://www.datanovia.com/en/blog/gganimate-how-to-create-plots-with-beautiful-animation-in-r/)

7. [Mass Incarceration in the United States](https://www.vox.com/2015/7/13/8913297/mass-incarceration-maps-charts)
   
   1. Note the use of simple bar charts. 
   
8. ![](https://shawglobalnews.files.wordpress.com/2020/01/3r1ga_ipsos_poll_predicitions_2020.png?w=602)

9. [Leader Aproval Ratings](https://www.cbc.ca/news2/interactives/leadermeter/index.html)

10. ![Sports Revenues](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sjkiss/DMJN328/master/Lecture_Notes/january_20/Capture.JPG)
    
    
    
11. Australian Fires

    1. ![](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/660/cpsprodpb/16615/production/_110496619_australia_bush_fires_13jan2020_640-nc.png)
    2. ![](https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/660/cpsprodpb/1262A/production/_110460357_australia_fire_size_2020_v3_976.png)

# Resources

1. GGthemes Package (https://www.ggplot2-exts.org/ggthemes.html)

2. R Graph Gallery [](https://www.r-graph-gallery.com/)
